The code for the object system is based on Tiny Clos version 1.7,
which is distributed under the following license:

Copyright (c) 1992 Xerox Corporation.  
All Rights Reserved.  

Use, reproduction, and preparation of derivative works are permitted.
Any copy of this software or of any derivative work must include the
above copyright notice of Xerox Corporation, this paragraph and the
one after it.  Any distribution of this software or derivative works
must comply with all applicable United States export control laws.

This software is made available AS IS, and XEROX CORPORATION DISCLAIMS
ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE, AND NOTWITHSTANDING ANY OTHER PROVISION CONTAINED HEREIN, ANY
LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES RESULTING FROM THE SOFTWARE OR ITS USE IS
EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMED, WHETHER ARISING IN CONTRACT, TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE) OR STRICT LIABILITY, EVEN IF XEROX CORPORATION IS ADVISED
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

========================================================================

Original Code for the VM and the bootstrap compiler taken from the
book "Paradigms of Artificial Intelligence Programming" (PAIP) by
Peter Norvig and distributed under this license:

Software License Agreement

Copyright © 1998-2002 by Peter Norvig.

Permission is granted to anyone to use this software, in source or
object code form, on any computer system, and to modify, compile,
decompile, run, and redistribute it to anyone else, subject to the
following restrictions:

The author makes no warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied,
about the suitability of this software for any purpose.

The author accepts no liability of any kind for damages or other
consequences of the use of this software, even if they arise from
defects in the software.

The origin of this software must not be misrepresented, either by
explicit claim or by omission.  Altered versions must be plainly
marked as such, and must not be misrepresented as being the original
software. Altered versions may be distributed in packages under other
licenses (such as the GNU license).

If you find this software useful, it would be nice if you let me
(peter@norvig.com) know about it, and nicer still if you send me
modifications that you are willing to share. However, you are not
required to do so.

========================================================================

Modifications and Poem implementation under the same license:

Software License Agreement

Copyright © 2012 by Matthias Hölzl.

Permission is granted to anyone to use this software, in source or
object code form, on any computer system, and to modify, compile,
decompile, run, and redistribute it to anyone else, subject to the
following restrictions:

The author makes no warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied,
about the suitability of this software for any purpose.

The author accepts no liability of any kind for damages or other
consequences of the use of this software, even if they arise from
defects in the software.

The origin of this software must not be misrepresented, either by
explicit claim or by omission.  Altered versions must be plainly
marked as such, and must not be misrepresented as being the original
software. Altered versions may be distributed in packages under other
licenses (such as the GNU license).

If you find this software useful, it would be nice if you let me
(tc@xantira.com) know about it, and nicer still if you send me
modifications that you are willing to share. However, you are not
required to do so.

========================================================================

